ARIMA models are general class of models for forecasting a time series which can be made to be “stationary”. While exponential smoothing models were based on a description of trend and seasonality in the data, ARIMA models aim to describe the autocorrelations in the data.

ARIMA model has 3 components: the autoregression component (AR), the integration component (I) and the moving average component(MA). 

AR modeling of a time series is that the observed value depends on some linear combination of previous observed values up to a defined maximum lag (denoted p). Can be justified on the grounds of habit persistence. Sometimes prices are said to follow such a process.

MA component of a time series is that the observed value is a random error term plus some linear combination of previous random error terms up to a defined maximum lag (denoted q). Such processes are often used to model shocks to a system.

The process of differencing is known as an integration part (I). The d parameter tells us how many times we need to difference the data to get a stationarity property.

Seasonal ARIMA allows for the presence of seasonality in a series. This leads to the seasonal ARIMA(p,d,q,P,D,Q,m), where P, D and Q refer to the orders of the seasonal AR, I and MA parts of the model respectively and m is the number of periods per season


----------------------------------

User may toggle between "Seasonal" and  "Non-seasonal" model, using "Seasonality" switch. Take into condideration, that the "Seasonality --> Target seasonal factor" and the "Seasonality --> Frequency" are only a recommendation. If one of the parameters is found to be incopatible with data, the "automatic" mode is activated 


"Model customization" group of parameters used to control ARIMA optimization. "Allow mean" and "Allow drift" allow one additional non-zero term to the model, thier inforecement depends on d (the order of differencing). The first is enforced if d=0, the second if d = 1. 

Box-Cox transformation is used to remove non-stationarity of time -series in variance, which is not always removed by differencing. 
The parameter "lambda" of the transformation may be found automatically or set manually by advanced user. 

The parameter "Stepwise selection" triggers a stepwise optimization scheme. If "FALSE" algorithm evaluates all the possible models exhaustively, and may be very slow. 

"Info and warnings -> Output information criteria" allows to output one of the common infromation criterias: Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC), Corrected Akaike's Information Criterion (AICc), or Schwarz's Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC).
In general, any infromation criteria is a measure of the relative quality of statistical models for a given set of data. It is inverse-proportional to the residuals and proportional to the number of estimated parameters in the model. 


 

 

